# Gradle

Learn how to use gradle effectively by reading official docs.

## Project 6 — Gradle  

### Motivation

- Level 1: learn how gradle deeper

## About

### Part 1 — setup

This project is generated by executing `gradle init` and selecting multiple folders project. Then I applied

```shell
gradle wrapper --gradle-version 7.6
```

to update the wrapper to the latest available version. After that you can run `./gradlew run` to test if it works.

Use https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/com.dorongold.task-tree plugin to see a list of tasks that will be executed
```
./gradlew build taskTree
```

### Cool commands

You can abbreviate everything with gradle as long as there is only one possible options. The following command will
execute `test` task inside `list` project

```
./gradlew li:te
```

Listing projects and tasks

```
./gradlew projects
./gradlew tasks
```

There is generally a `--help` option available for most tasks

```
./gradlew help --task app:build
```

There is a completions support available separately https://github.com/gradle/gradle-completion

#### Dependencies

Listing dependencies

```
./gradlew app:dependencies
```

Same for build script dependencies

```
./gradlew buildEnvironment
```

#### Daemon 

To see active daemons run

```
./gradlew --status
```

This command will only show daemon with the same version. If you use multiple version you may have multiple gradle daemon
running together. See [compatibility](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/gradle_daemon.html#compatibility) to check
what properties are used to start new daemon. To detect all daemons if you have JDK installed, run

```
jps
```

To stop a daemon run

```
./gradlew --stop
```

This again will only stop daemons of the same version. In order to remove the daemon for different versions first find them
with `jps` then `kill`

## Conclusion

**DISCLAIMER**: I write this chapter in the end of a project to summarize my learning about a new tool. This is heavily
biased opinion, and you should do your own research for any practical case.
